Data and Distributions

The concept of data distribution provides the basis for analytics and inferential statistics. There are 2 types of data:
1.	Discrete Data, as the name suggests, can take only specified values and no fractions. For example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 and not 1.1, 2.6 etc.

2.	Continuous Data can take any value within a range. The range may be finite or infinite. For example, weight or height of a person, the length of the road. 

Distributions:
Bernoulli Distribution
It is a distribution which has only two possible outcomes success or failure with single trial. 
A variable x which has a Bernoulli distribution can take value 1 with the probability of success, say p, 
and the value 0 with the probability of failure, say q or 1-p.
Bernoulli Distribution is a special case of Binomial Distribution with a single trial.

Uniform Distribution
The probabilities of getting outcomes are equally likely and that is the basis of a uniform distribution.

Binomial Distribution
A distribution where only two outcomes are possible, success or failure, gain or loss, win or lose and 
where the probability of success and failure is same for all the trials is called a Binomial Distribution.

Normal Distribution
Normal distribution represents the behaviour of most of the situations in the universe. 
The sum of random variables turns out to be normally distributed, contributing to its widespread application. Any distribution is known as Normal distribution if it has the following characteristics:
1.	The mean, median and mode of the distribution coincide.
2.	The curve of the distribution is bell-shaped and symmetrical.
3.	Total area under the curve is 1.
4.	Exactly half of the values are to the left of the centre and the other half to the right.
Poisson Distribution
A distribution is called Poisson distribution when the following assumptions are valid:
1. Any successful event should not influence the outcome of another successful event.
2. The probability of success over a short interval must equal the probability of success over a longer interval.
3. The probability of success in an interval approaches zero as the interval becomes smaller.

Exponential Distribution
It is primarily used for survival kind of analysis. From the expected life of a machine to the expected life of a human, exponential distribution successfully delivers the resul
